Learnings from Credly Netacad...

The interconnection of ISPs in backbone - complex with expensive switches and routers.

When we try to send a data to a remote server, first, the data reaches the router from the internal network.
Then, it is transferred to the modem which connects the whole local network with the router to the ISP.
ISP acts as the gateway of the WAN. Then, using multiple routers, it sends the data from the local network to the remote server.
Those intermediate routers between the remote server and the end device will not have any modems as they are transmitting connections "internally"
in the wide area network. This line can be well understood when the whole WAN is seen as a local network where the router is taking care of passing the information "internally".

[Device] ↔ [Local Router] ↔ [Modem] ↔ [ISP Router] ↔ [Intermediate Routers (WAN)] ↔ [Remote Server]

Problems while connecting your device directly to the modem without router:
    1. Direct Exposure to the internet, the device itself must handle all the traffic.
    2. No firewall protection - Routers have built in firewall - Modems have no firewall.
    3. Lack of NAT - provided by routers to translate private IP addresses into a single public IP address. Without router, the device is vulnerable to attacks.
    4. Limited to single device but router creates local network.
    5. No Control over traffic - No Traffic filtering, Parental controls and Quality of Service.
    etc.


Cable connection - Internet data - same coaxial cable that telecasts channel. Both signals - separated by Cable modem.
DSL(Digital Subscriber Line) - Internet data through the telephone wire. Requires special high speed modem to separate DSL and telephone signal.
Three channels - One for calling without disconnecting from the internet. Second channel, faster download channel for receiving info from internet. 
                 Third channel - uploading information(slightly slower).

Additional connectivity options - Cellular, Satellite, Dial Up Telephone